---
title: Wrrds
excerpt: Allow people to add messages to be displayed on a screen
tag: featured-lab
links:
 code: https://github.com/thegingerbloke/wrrds
images:
  featured: featured.png
  thumbs:
    desktop: thumb-desktop.png
    mobile: thumb-mobile.jpg
  desktop:
    - desktop-home.png
  mobile:
    - mobile-home.png
    - mobile-form.png
    - mobile-admin.png
technologies:
  - HTML
  - CSS
  - JavaScript
  - Ajax
  - PHP
---

## Overview

This is a web app I put together over a couple of evenings that allows people to add messages to be displayed on a screen, using the [Canvas Letters](https://petegoodman.com/labs/javascript-canvas-letters/) script I created a while ago.


It could be used at events to allow people to add messages via their phones/tablets/laptops, and have them displayed on a large screen, without having to sign up for an account/SMS/tweet/etc.

There are three parts to the app:

## The form

This is the basic input form that allows people to add messages

## The visualiser

This is the web page to load up on the screen/projector, to display the messages

## Admin

An administration area to allow you to manage which messages are shown, and also archive old messages so the system can be re-used at a later date without having to touch the files on the server.

Set up is quick, just add the files to a web server, and edit the `config.ini.php` and add your MySQL database access details.

There are also a couple of configurable options:

  - **moderate**: Moderate all new messages and only display those that pass (the rest can be toggled via the admin section)
  - **repeatMessages**: If set to true, it will repeat a random old message if no new ones have come in.  If set to false it will wait for a new message before updating the display

It is possible to password-protect the admin pages via .htaccess / .htpasswrd - there are sample files in the admin directory

This was just a quick proof-of-concept project, there are a lot of potential updates.  It doesn't use any libraries so it's fairly lean, but very basic. It should really use websockets instead of polling for content.  Etc...
